# Ex Machinis Web Design Manual
Ex Machinis is an information intensive multiplayer sapace game. The game is played primarily by building and programming feets of autonomous spacecraft via email. These spacecraft are capable of accessing, acting, and reporting on the contents of an extensive in-game database. The database holds searchable information on planets, moons, commets, spacracft, resources, and markets.  However, in addition to accessing this information via their spacecraft, players and visitors will be able to browse the game's data sets via a visually intuitive web interface.

# Primary Objectives
The Ex Machinis web interface is intended to address a number of important objectives with respect to gameplay. These functions include:
* **Ranking players.** The web interface serves as an elaborate leader-board for ranking players in the game. Chief among these may be the player's accumulated wealth as expressed in terms of money, resources, and spacecraft. 
* **Trouble shooting code.** The website will give players imediate and intuative access to data that will be valuable for trouble-shooting the performance of the their programmed spacecraft.  Much of this informations will be found in pages which track the inventory and events assoicated with a specific drone.
* **Searching for information.** The web site will allow players to quickly look up the most current infrormation on spacecraft, resources, protocols, markets, and orbital bodies.
* **Building communities.** Given the complexities of the game, Ex Machinis players will rely extensively on other players to develop and implement strategies and code. Much of this knowlege and advice will be shared via a discussion board, which will be accessed via that web interface.
* **Recruiting new players.** You don't need to be a registered player to learn about Ex Machinis and observe real0-time game-play.  Anyone can access the website to read the player's manual, review the chat boards, and browse game data on companies, spacraft, and events. The intent is to give prospective players an opportunity to observe game-play before deciding to participate. 

# Core Design Principles
There are a number of core design principles, which will be used to guide the construction of our web interface.
* **There are no logins.** All of the game's manuals, tutorials, discussion boards, and data sets are imdiately available to player's alike.
* **The GUI renders well on mobile devices.** Ex Machinis is a persustant simulation which never stops.  Therfore it is important that players can access the universe from multiple platforms, including their smartphones and tablets.  Email provides one mechanism for ensuring uninterupted access to the game.  An opern web interface which accomodates a broad range if devices is another improtant criteria for ensuring the broades possible access.
* **Everything is inter-linked.** The web interface encourages users to browse and explore in-game data by extensively interlinking elements.  Whenever possible, references to planets, moons, asteroids, spacecraft, and resources, will be linked to subject-specific data sheets containing more information on that and related objects.  For example, a company's profile will list its spacrafts. Clicking on the name of one of its spacracft will take you to a page that shows the ship's location and resources.  Selecting the location will show you other spacecraft in the area as well as a list of mineable resource.  Any of those spacecraft or resources can be selected to access further datails on the subject.

# Specific Content
The website will have a range of interlinked pages that give the players and visitors access to tutorials, directories, indexes, and data sheets with information on the game and its contents.  Many of the pages will pull data directly from the SQL database. All tables will be sortable by the different collumns and can be filtered based on a search term.
* **Landing Page.** The landing page will welcome users to Ex Machinis and offer a brief introduction to the game.
* **Player's Manual.**  This page will take the Markdown-formated Player's Manual that exists in the document directory and render it as an HTML formatted page, with associated links and images.
* **FORTH Dictionary.** This page will render the Mmarkdown-formated FORTH Dictionary that is also found in the documents directory.
* **Company Directory.** This is a searchable list of the player-owned companies.  It will display the company name, start date, and wealth (credits) and can be sorted by any of these columns.  The company names will be hyperlinked to individual Company Stats pages.
* **Spacecraft Directory.** This is a searchable list of all the spacecarft in the game. The table will provide the spacearft name, ID, hull type, location, and affiliated company name.  All names and locations will by hyperlinked to specific data sheets.
* **Protocol Index.** This index lists all the protocols that are available for use by the players along with a protocol ID and description.  The data for this table will be drawn from the SQL DB.
* **Query Index.** This index will provide a list of the queries, query IDs, and descriptions of all queries that are available to the player.
* **Solar Index.** This will be a searchable table of all planets, moons, asteroids, and commets that are in the game.  The table will include a hyperlinked name, object ID, and a hyperlinjed central body name (ie. the body that the object is orbiting around).  It will also provide a count of the spacecraft that are orbiting that position.  Clicking on any of the hyperlinks will take you to an Object Data Sheet.
* **Resource Index.** This is a searchable list of all the resources that are available in the game. The table provides a hyperlinked name, resource ID, resource mass, maximum sell price, and minimum buy price.  Clicking on the name will take you to a Resrouce Data Sheet.
* **Company Data Sheet.** This page will compile detailed statistics for a particular company to include name, start date, wealth, and spacecraft.  The spacecraft will be listed in a table that displays and is sortable by name, hull type, and location.  Clicking on the spacecraft name will take you to a page of statistics on that spacecraft.  Clicking on the location will similarly take you to a stats page for that particular planet, moon, or asteroid.
* **Spacecraft Data Sheet.** This facts sheet will provide information on a particular spacecraft to include name, hyperlinked location, hull type, cargo capacity, resources, and events.  The resource table will contain the resource name, count, unit mass, and total mass.  Clicking on the resource will take you to a resource stats page. The events table will list the most recent events affectinv the spaceract in reverse chronological order. Details will include the type of event, the time it occurred, the name of the associated protocol, the name of the drone that initiated the protocol, the location, and the effect on resources or wealth.  All references to spacraft and locations will be hyperlinked to detailed data sheets on the subject.
* **Resource Data Sheet.** This page will contain a name, ID, description, and mass of a resource.  It will also have tables that list buy and sell bids.  Each bid will list the bidding spaceraft, its location, and limits on price and quantity.  Spacecraft and locations names will be hyperlinked to data sheets.
* **Object Data Sheet.** The Solar Object Data Sheet will provide important details about a prarticular orbital body to include orbital parameters and current position. It will also list the resources that can be mined at the location and any spacecraft that are present.  Spacecraft, location, and resource names will be hyperlinked to the corresponding data sheets.
